- 2701!
Get the fuck out!
- Is there
a MedicAlert bracelet?
- Did you get an ID on him?
- Student ID.
Name says Jackson Davis.
- That's a start.
Jackson. what's going on?
- Title 18!
Title section 508!
- Javadi. you're with us.
- We're gonna take good care
of you. Mr. Davis.
You're in a safe place.
- You're okay.
- Get off!
- Trauma One.
- Reasonableness! 2709!
- Okay. okay. Jackson.
We're gonna need you
to calm down
to get the Taser barbs
out of your neck.
- Do you need to jump on that?
- Mm-mm.
Covering calls for Dana.
- Stop talking to me.
You can't! Title 2710--
- Hard to assess pupils.
- [grunts]
Hard to assess anything.
- Yeah. yeah.
Wait till after he's sedated.
- 10 of olanzapine.
- No. no.
That'll take 15 minutes
to kick in.
Uh. 5 of droperidol
puts him down in 5.
- No. you can't give it
without knowing his QT.
- Two beats of a rhythm strip
before he took off the leads.
- No.
You can't be in here.
Get out!
- That looks good.
Go with the droperidol.
- Get the fuck out!
Get off me!
- Do we take
the Taser barbs out?
- 2701.
- No.
We got to wait
till he calms down first.
- Get off me. man.
2901. get out!
Get out!
2710.
Title 18. section--
1938.
- Mr. Randall.
happy 20th anniversary
and a very happy
Fourth of July.
But no sex fireworks
for you tonight.
Give everything
a chance to heal.
- Don't worry. I will.
Thanks. Doc.
Ow.
- We're going right back
through here. okay. ma'am?
- Oh. thank you.
- Change the dressing
twice a day.
Doggy bag of the ointment
and nonstick gauze.
- Cool.
I know the drill.
Come back if it starts
to ache or stink.
- Exactly.
Good luck. Stay safe.
- Oh. shit. it's Daddy.
with your daddy.
- Lord. what'd
they get up to now?
- Treatin' and streetin'.
- "Pros from Dover."
- I'm sorry. Ms. Graham.
I just saw the ASL note
in your chart.
This is Lindsey.
We'll bring you back
as soon as possible.
Stay with her.
[indistinct chatter]
All right.
Who here needs help?
[indistinct chatter]
You?
You need help?
- Oh. no. no. no. ma'am.
I've been on these since 1987.
This one here.
he got dizzy. fell down.
- Forgot
my blood-pressure medication.
I left it back home in Georgia.
- And presto.
We're back. Mr. Digby.
with some IV antibiotics.
First we scrub your outsides.
then we clean your insides.
What do you need to document
in his chart?
- Uh. time started.
time completed.
and any adverse reactions.
- What else?
- Um. lot number
on the antibiotic vial.
- Excellent.
Mr. Digby.
- It's just Digby.
- Digby. why'd you wait
so long to come see us?
- I don't like
going to doctors.
- Well. that makes two of us.
We all need help
from time to time.
Think maybe we could arrange
for some ongoing care?
- I just kind of want
to get patched up. you know?
- I do know.
But that's today.
What's tomorrow?
- Sunday.
- Use the system.
That's what it's there for.
Buddy of mine. Dylan.
knows all the angles.
He even works
the occasional miracle.
You think maybe
I could have him stop by?
- I guess. yeah.
- Great.
How about a sandwich?
- Yeah.
Yes. please.
- We always offer.
Two most important things--
that they know we're here
and that we'll never
stop offering.
- Thanks for covering.
Princess.
- Anytime.
- Yo. can I get
some help over here?
- Yeah.
What's going on. man?
- The crazy kid in there.
screaming.
- All right. have a seat.
- Yeah. that's him.
Still going nuts.
Probably meth--
fucking animal.
- What's your name. sir?
- You don't understand!
- Tony Chinchiolo.
campus security.
Yeah. I was at work
when this happened.
so I'm gonna need
everything documented.
- Okay.
- All right.
Heart rate's 89.
Pulse ox 97.
Scalp lac's tiny--
5 millimeters.
- Ow.
- Should hold together
with Dermabond.
- Kid threw
a fucking chair at me.
- Work-related injury
gets a full exam.
Jesse here will take you.
- Oh. no.
I-I'm gonna stay here
till the cops come
so I can give my statement
and so I can watch him.
- Yeah.
- Trust me. you do not want
him getting out of there.
Ow. fuck.
- Did she say anything?
- No more than she said to you.
Nothing going on at home.
Nothing at school.
- And you believe her?
- There's some flags.
Bruising in various stages
of healing.
She's a little withdrawn.
doesn't engage much
for girls her age.
But she could just be
a little shy...
or scared of being in here.
- Or she's being abused.
- That too.
We'll find out more
when Dad shows up.
- Yep.
If he shows up.
- I need a hand here!
[object snaps]
- There's the first barb out.
All right. Javadi. you're up.
[monitor beeping]
Okay. so you're gonna
want to clamp
where the shaft meets the barb.
- Mm-hmm.
- Yep.
Stabilize the skin.
- Not so close
so as to stick yourself.
I've seen that once or twice.
- Uh. pull up at 90 degrees.
- Harder.
Yep.
Harder.
- Oh.
Do we suture those?
- Nope. just a Band-Aid.
- Mel. we need orders.
- Right.
- I got a rainbow.
- Uh. CBC...
CMP. UA. blood alcohol.
and tox screen.
- All of the above.
- Cap. if this
young man's stable.
can he go to Central 10 pronto?
Double trauma at the back door.
- Okay. you heard the boss.
Let's get going.
Today is starting to heat up.
[indistinct chatter.
telephone ringing]
- Mark Yee. 32-year-old
restrained driver.
auto versus motorcycle.
Altered with normal BP.
satting 99 on 2 liters.
- We're at
the hospital now. Mark.
What's wrong with him?
Why isn't he talking?
- His wife. Nancy.
front-seat passenger.
declined transport.
- I'm fine.
We weren't going all that fast.
The motorcycle ran the light.
- I'm Dr. Robby.
This is Dr. Al-Hashimi.
- Nice to meet you.
- And this is Nurse Dana.
She's our charge nurse.
We need to look over
your husband.
- Hello. Let's step over here
for a minute. hon.
Let them get to work. okay?
Antoine. Larry.
transfer out here.
T-1 will be open in a sec.
- Aye. aye. Cap.
- One. two. three.
[grunts]
- Incoming.
- Okay. Joy. you stay with me.
Samira. you stay
with Dr. Al-Hashimi.
- Open skull fracture.
Tubed him
for agonal respirations.
BP 60 palp initially.
Started a liter of NS.
but lost his pulse en route.
- Oh. boy.
this doesn't look good.
- One. two. three.
[grunts]
Joy. check his pupils.
Somebody hand me
a pair of scissors.
- 8 millimeters.
Nonreactive.
- AKA blown pupils.
fixed and dilated.
Oh.
[groans]
- Crushed skull with tons
of gray matter extravasation.
At least it was quick.
- No helmet?
- Nope. 'cause he took
the PennDOT
Motorcycle Safety Course.
- Isn't that
what you took. Robby?
- Hold compressions.
Yes. but I still wear a helmet.
Is he a donor?
- Also nope.
- That is too bad.
Asystole.
I think we are done here.
- What's next door?
- The guy who hit him.
Joy. you're with me.
- What about a moment
of reflection? I thought--
- He'll still be dead
when we get back.
- Pulse ox 99.
BP 108 over 72.
- EFAST negative.
- Hell of a lot better
than the guy next door.
- How's the airway?
- Good volume.
Good sats.
Gag reflex...
- [gags]
- Present.
- Intubate?
- Maybe.
Maybe not.
- Mr. Yee?
Joy. sternal rub
on his chest. like this.
Really hard. please.
Mr. Yee?
- [groans]
- Spontaneous eye movement.
Responds to pain.
GCS is 10.
Borderline for intubation.
- No muscle tone--flaccid
paralysis in the left arm.
- Same on the right.
- And both legs.
- Add towels to both sides of
the collar for more stability.
Let's not make this worse.
- Pan scan with 3D
reconstruction of the spine.
- He's quadriplegic?
- If so. it's
a low cervical injury.
- Why is that. Joy?
- Uh...
- C3. 4. and 5 helps you
breathe to stay alive.
- Mr. Montrose...
you can't just be wandering
around. talking to patients.
- Well. that's--
that's what I do.
I'm a greeter at Walmart.
I get paid to wander
and to talk to folks.
- Well. as a--
as a personal favor to me.
can you at least stay
in your general vicinity?
I can get you a wheelchair
while we wait for your X-rays.
but it might take a minute.
- [clears throat]
My dear. I cannot sit.
My backside is killing me
from where I fell on it.
which is an embarrassing
admission to make
to such a lovely woman.
- [chuckles]
Well. thank you
for the compliment.
but there's no need
to be embarrassed.
You took a very nasty fall.
- Well. then may I say that
one look in your beautiful eyes
and I think I'm falling again.
[both laughing]
- What a charmer.
Just for that. I'm gonna
get you a foam donut.
It's the eighth wonder
of the world.
- Pretty great laugh
you got there. Doc.
- [chuckles]
Oh. God.
My witch's cackle?
- Got CT results
for Mr. Williams.
- Ah.
Oh. wow.
Okay.
- Okay.
- Ah.
Right on time.
Just--just getting full.
Yeah. I'm ready
for number five.
- That's impressive.
- Uh-huh.
- Yeah. there's more
where that came from.
Although. uh. my intake
is running low.
- Yeah. well. two more bottles
ought to do it.
Then we'll drain your tooth.
and we'll get you out of here
before the fireworks tonight.
- Oh.
- Okay. Clamped.
Ogilvie. make the change.
- Okay.
- Mm-hmm.
- All right.
Let her rip.
- Flowing like a river.
- [chuckles]
I love me some fireworks.
- Oh. yeah?
- Shit. I-I met Mr. Zambelli...
- Lean forward.
- Many times on the field.
- Who's Mr. Zambelli?
- Son. you don't know fireworks
if you don't know
the name Zambelli.
He helped Pittsburgh become
the firework capital
of America.
You did know that. didn't you?
- No.
- Ah.
Y'all don't know nothing
about pyrotechnics.
Stick to doctoring.
- Yes. will do.
- [sighs] I'm sure you have
some questions.
I know it's a lot to take in.
- It's a tumor.
It's a brain tumor.
- Well. it's a mass.
about 4 centimeters.
in the frontal lobe.
- Is it cancer?
- We can't say
for sure right now.
It could be many things--
uh. infection. inflammation.
a benign cyst.
- Is it what made me fall?
- Yeah. possibly.
We'd like to keep you here
and treat with dexamethasone.
which is a steroid
to take down the swelling.
- Hmm.
- And then we'll need
a brain biopsy
to know exactly what it is.
- What. you're--you're gonna
cut open my head?
- It's just a small hole.
We'll do a-a CT-guided
stereotactical biopsy
with a-a blunt. thin needle...
- [sighs]
- Which sounds crazy. but it's
actually pretty amazing.
I mean. most patients
go home the next day.
- I don't know.
What do you think I should do?
- I think this is
a pretty good plan.
- Okay.
- Yeah?
- BP 95 over 67.
- Seems a little
on the low side.
- It is.
Have you ever had
low blood pressure in the past?
- No. sir. My blood pressure's
always high.
- Hold still. sir.
No talking while we do the EKG.
- The Hansens all run high.
except for Monty.
He ran low. but he's dead.
- That's not helpful.
You want to help.
quit playing family pharmacist.
- Pooling meds is how
we've always done it.
You put everything
in a big pile
in the middle of the table--
- Well. look where
that got us now.
- No. I'm gonna jump in here
and echo that sharing meds
which haven't been
prescribed to you
is actually a real big no-no.
How we doing on remembering
what your brother
might've taken?
- We could call
back to the house.
- Great idea.
Okay.
Whatever little round pill
you took. sir.
has caused your heart rate
and blood pressure
to drop so low.
you're at risk of fainting.
falling. or having
a serious injury.
- Oh.
- We need to take
him back to the ER
so he can get
a liter of fluids.
we can check his blood tests
and monitor his heart rate
and blood pressure
till he recovers.
- Pulse ox holding steady
at 99.
Good tidal volume.
- How you doing there. Mr. Yee?
- Scanner can take him now.
- I'll check the results
from upstairs.
- Why is he so altered?
- Could be concussion.
Maybe a small
intracranial hemorrhage.
- All will be revealed
by the Donut of Truth.
- Need a portable monitor.
- Joy. stay with him. please.
See if the radiologist
can give us a STAT read.
- How is he?
Did I hear someone
say he's paralyzed?
- There are signs of weakness
in both arms and legs.
But before we can make
any prognosis.
we'll need a full-body scan.
- Head CT will show us
any brain injury.
Neck CT will show us
any spinal-cord injury.
Chest. abdomen. pelvis will
rule out any internal bleeding.
- Oh. my God.
- The scans should only take
about 15 minutes.
In the meantime. perhaps you'd
let us look you over as well?
- I'm fine.
The medics checked me.
I just want to stay
with my husband.
- Well. you can't go
into the CT with him.
but you can wait just outside
if you like.
- Excuse me.
- Princess. this is Nancy.
Mrs. Yee is gonna go
with her husband to CT.
Will you show her where to go?
- Sure. Come on in.
- Thank you.
- So what's the plan now?
Keep observing me
in my natural habitat?
No telling
what I might do next.
- I think I've got the gist.
How about we each take a lap
and meet here
when Mr. Yee is back from CT?
- Splitting up so soon?
- You're free to see
other people. Dr. Robinavitch.
I'm looking for cooperation.
not commitment.
- [chuckles]
[device whirs]
- So you bandaged
the burn yourself?
- Oh. no. no. no. no.
no. no. no. no--
- Ma'am. you're--you're making
it difficult for me
to see under this dressing.
Is that a tablecloth?
- Part of a window curtain.
Cleaner than tablecloth.
I'll wait for the doctor.
Thank you.
- May I ask how this happened?
- For weeks on end.
the kids with their
guchnyy firecrackers.
going all day and night.
- Oh. i-is this
a firecracker burn?
- No. sweetie.
this is from the full samovar
I drop on the floor
when the sh--
the firecrackers
started going on again.
- I'm sorry.
What's a samovar?
- It is a big metal urn
for coffee or tea.
They can get super-duper hot.
and I was never allowed
to touch ours.
Uh. hello. Mrs. Kovalenko.
My name is
Dr. Michael Robinavitch.
Everybody calls me Dr. Robby.
- Robinavitch? Jewish?
- You guessed it.
And I see that you are
here today for a burn.
Why don't we take a look?
- Oh. not married?
- No. I'm not married.
- [chuckles]
Do you attend synagogue?
- Uh. not for a while.
I mean. High Holidays mostly.
- Where?
- Ooh.
- [whimpers]
- What did you put on this?
- Where?
- On your burn.
Is this honey?
- Yes. honey.
Where do you go on holy days?
- Uh. my grandparents. um--
I grew up
going to Rodef Shalom.
You?
- Tree of Life.
- They're rebuilding.
- Yes. something new.
Remember. Rebuild. Renew.
That's the slogan.
- I'm sorry.
did you say "honey"?
- You think honey's funny?
Works like a charm.
My father kept bees.
I know.
- If the honey is medical grade
and the burns are not too bad.
honey actually does have
some antibacterial
and anti-inflammatory
properties.
However. these burns
are very deep in some places.
They're going
to need debridement.
I'm glad you came in.
- That's what I thought.
I was hoping no.
but I figured as much.
- Not to worry.
We are gonna have you
patched up and home
in time for dinner
and fireworks.
- No.
No more fireworks.
No.
- Okay.
- Anyone here treating
Kylie Connors?
- She's my daughter.
She's nine.
I'm Benny Connors.
- Mr. Connors. I'm Dr. Santos.
I'm treating Kylie.
- Is she okay?
Can I see her?
My--my girlfriend. Gina.
says she got a cut on her chin?
- Yeah. I can take you to her.
She has a small
laceration on her chin.
but it was easily repaired
with medical superglue.
so no stitches necessary.
- Okay.
- She chipped a tooth.
but it's a baby tooth.
so it won't need dental work.
- All right.
well. that's a relief.
- Has Kylie had
any previous injuries?
- Uh. yeah.
She. um--she broke
her wrist last year.
She was skateboarding.
- Dana. if you could get Dylan
to come to North 1.
and Ahmad.
- You bet.
- Okay. I got it now.
One. two. three.
- Daddy. you came.
- Baby. what's going on. huh?
- My tooth broke.
and my chin got cut.
- Oh. no.
[smooches]
What happened?
- She was running
up the stairs.
- Gina was chasing me.
- We were playing.
- As I was saying. Mr. Connors.
the laceration is pretty minor.
- On the stairs?
- It was an accident.
- Perhaps we can--
- An accident
that wouldn't have happened
if you weren't running
up the stairs.
Do you understand
what I'm saying?
This is the last thing
that I need right now.
is her mother finding out
that she got hurt
when she's with you.
- It was an accident.
And before you get
all high and mighty.
I've got questions of my own.
- Like what?
- Hey. Mr. Connors.
I'm sorry. I meant to be here
when you arrived.
I'm Dylan Easton.
I'm with Social Services.
- We have insurance.
Thank you.
- Perhaps we can step outside
and chat for a second?
I can fill you in
on where we are.
Hey. uh. Jesse. do you want
to keep Kylie entertained
for a few minutes while I...
- Absolutely.
- Borrow her dad?
We'll just head down
to the family room.
It's a little quieter there.
- Why do I got to talk
to a social worker?
- Anytime a child is injured.
we have some standard questions
that we ask parents
and caregivers.
- Good. That's fine. Great.
Ask me here.
- Well. we noticed
some bruising on Kylie's body.
some old. some new.
on her back and legs.
Any idea how she got those?
- Yeah. soccer.
She plays for a club team.
They're. you know.
little girls.
but they play like they're
in "The Hunger Games."
- Well. I understand
that you and Kylie do
a fair amount of roughhousing.
- What?
I'm sorry.
Are you fucking kidding me?
Where are you going with this?
Are you saying
that I hurt my daughter?
- Mr. Connors.
nobody's saying that--
- Oh. no. no. no.
no. no. no. no. no.
Gina!
- Mr. Connors--
- Just--just--Gina!
- Sir. take a breath.
- Gina. what did you say
to them?
- Nothing.
I said that you're a great dad.
- Okay. What else?
- That you guys
like to wrestle.
- Jesus Christ.
- What?
They wanted to know where
all her bruises are from.
- Who the fuck are you to talk
about me and my daughter?
- Who the fuck am I?
- Yeah. that's what I'm asking.
- Hey. big man. take
one more fucking step--
- Hey. that's enough.
You need to calm down.
- Hey. everybody.
back the fuck up!
- Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop!
Kylie's platelets
are only 9.000.
- What does that mean?
- [sighs]
It's--it's not what we thought.
It's probably ITP.
- What the hell is ITP?
- Something we can treat.
- You feel that?
- Mm. no.
- Excellent.
This is looking very good.
- Ah. Tell Mr. Kovalenko.
[laughter]
- Mrs. Kovalenko?
- Yes?
Yana. please.
- Yana. you mentioned
that you dropped the samovar
when you heard firecrackers.
- Yeah.
I was on my way inside--
October 27. 2018--
to the synagogue
when the shooting started.
There was nothing I could do.
I went in...
after the police arrived.
I felt I had to.
I'm better now.
But...
[voice breaking]
New Year's Eve. Fourth of July.
when--when kids have
their fireworks
and firecrackers. I--
- There is no clock
on how long it takes.
- [scoffs]
No clock.
You must be joking.
[knock at door]
- Robby?
- Yep.
- Mark Yee is back from CT.
- Oh. okay.
Um. Perlah. why don't we go
ahead and see if we can put
a nonstick dressing on this?
And I will come back.
and we can discuss
aftercare instructions.
- Yeah. you got it. boss.
- Thank you. Doctor.
[door closes]
[indistinct chatter]
- Vitals stable.
Pulse ox holding at 99.
- Okay.
Heart and lungs look good.
[cell phone rings]
- Dr. Mohan.
- Dr. Robby?
- Yeah?
[sighs]
- Please make him be okay.
- I can assure you that we
are gonna do absolutely--
- Everything you can.
I know.
God. this is all my fault.
- Mrs. Yee--
- Oh. he's been so stressed.
So I planned this weekend away
at Seven Springs.
but he didn't want to go
because of work.
So we fought
this whole morning.
And then I...
I said awful things.
Those can't be the last words
we say to each other.
Doctor. please.
- Good news.
CT looks normal.
No bleeding inside the skull.
C-spine. no fractures seen.
- He didn't break his neck?
- Then why is he paralyzed?
- You can have spinal injuries
without
radiologic abnormalities.
- Sometimes it doesn't show up
on CT. only on MRI.
[cell phone rings]
- Dr. Mohan.
Are you sure?
Okay.
Critical potassium level. 1.2.
- Wow.
- Okay.
- That's crazy low.
- Uh. extremely low potassium
with generalized weakness
and no cervical injury.
We may be looking at--
- Hypokalemic
periodic paralysis.
- What is that?
- It's a rare condition
where potassium gets shifted
into the cells.
causing profound weakness.
just like paralysis.
- Will he get better?
- Yes.
Back to normal in a few hours.
- In a f--
- Replete slowly.
10 MEQ of KCl--
- [crying]
Thank you so much.
Did you hear that. Mark?
Oh. baby.
you're gonna get better.
- All right. DD.
Hey. come on now. man.
- Oh. how you doing. Duante?
- Fine.
- Great.
If you're fine. you go home.
- Really?
- Yeah.
- Mm-mm.
Hey. tell them.
- Me and my sister
were making bracelets.
and I put beads up my nose.
- How many?
- One on each side.
- I got to ask--
why'd you stick them up there?
See how many will fit?
- To shoot them out
like rockets.
- Mm.
- But I breathed in.
and they went deeper
and now won't come out.
- Did you try anything at home?
- Yeah. I tried blowing
in his mouth.
but just got a little snot
on my cheek.
- "A" for effort. Dad.
Okay. we need to take a look
with a little flashlight.
Okay?
- Okay.
- This is what I have
to look forward to?
- This and so much more.
Red bead below
the inferior turbinate.
- I...
got a blue one.
Afrin. benzocaine.
Katz extractor?
- Yep. Dad. looks like we got
to go up and get them.
- No way he's sitting still.
- Oh. he'll be numbed up.
- You don't know this child.
- Hey. Duante.
you like video games?
- Everybody does.
- We have a 3D video game.
- Yeah.
- Cool.
- [chuckles]
- That's KCl and saline
at 10 MEQ per hour.
- We avoid dextrose
because the insulin response
drops the K even more.
- If it's genetic. why didn't
it happen when he was a kid?
- It usually starts
after the teen years.
- And it can be intermittent.
Sometimes it's triggered
by intense exercise or stress.
- We've been married
eight years.
We've had fights.
He's never collapsed.
- If his thyroid
gets overactive.
that brings it on
later in life.
- I ordered TSH. T3. T4.
- So now we just wait?
[monitors beeping rapidly]
- Bag him.
Starting compressions.
Charge to 200.
- What is happening?
- Low potassium
can harm electrical activity
in the heart.
- Charged.
- Clear.
- Resuming compressions.
- So your little girl was ITP?
- Go figure.
Nothing like a zebra
to kick-start your morning.
- Well. it's better
than the alternative.
- True.
- ITP.
So that's. uh. intra--
- Immune thrombocytopenia.
- Used to be called idiopathic
thrombocytopenic purpura.
Know what "idiopathic" means?
- That we don't know
the exact cause.
- It means the patient
is pathetic
and the doctor is an idiot.
- Just checked
on baby Jane Doe.
Looking good.
Taking formula well.
- We're here
to take a statement.
We're looking
for a Tony Chinchiolo.
- Yo!
Right over here. boys!
Well. officers.
- Heard you had some trouble
over at the campus library.
- Shit.
Let me just say--
new appreciation
for what you guys do every day.
Frickin' junkie jungle. right?
- At the campus library?
- Yeah.
- Thumb and forefinger
make a C.
Bottom three fingers make an E
for jaw lift.
One breath every five seconds.
Come here. try it.
- About two minutes
since defibrillation.
- Holding compressions.
- Normal sinus.
- Carotid. Strong carotid.
Okay. let's try for BP.
- Why don't we check
after the shock?
- 2024 ACLS guidelines.
Patients can remain pulseless
for a little bit.
even after successful defib.
- He came back with one shock.
That's as good as it gets.
- 104 over 68.
- Good squeeze. Good EF.
- Spontaneous respirations.
Okay. let's lift him up.
- He's breathing on his own--
excellent sign.
- Oh. God.
Can I touch him?
- Of course.
- Oh. Mark.
Hey.
- [groans softly]
- Oh. shit.
We need a gurney!
Nancy?
Mrs. Yee?
Weak carotid.
Shallow breaths.
- Did she vasovagal
from stress?
- Can't assume that.
Positive seat belt si--
oh. shit.
Hang two units of O-neg
on the rapid infuser.
Somebody call Garcia.
Shit.
We really should have insisted
on examining her.
- Okay. I got the head.
- Platelets are these
tiny things in the blood
that help it clot.
And thrombocytopenia is fancy
for "low platelets."
which explains why your skin
bruises so easily.
- And what causes it?
- It's actually
her immune system
that's causing
the destruction of platelets.
Sometimes
it's a triggered response
to. uh. an environmental factor
or virus.
- And what's the treatment?
What are you giving her?
- We'll be treating her
with high-dose steroids
to suppress the immune system
and IV immunoglobulin.
which reduces the destruction
of the platelets in the spleen.
- Can I go home?
- You're gonna have to stay
in the hospital
for about three days
to make sure
that the treatment is working.
- Okay. Okay.
So when can she get
a room in the hospital?
- That is
an excellent question.
I'm going to see
if I can make that happen
sooner rather than later.
but it might take a while.
- Okay.
- GPS says I should be there
by 11:00.
- Do you have any other
questions for me. ma'am?
- No. I'm sure I will.
but I'll let you go for now.
Thank you. Benny.
- All right.
I'll see you when you get here.
- See you soon. baby.
I love you.
- Bye. Mom.
Love you too.
- There you are.
- And there you are.
- Don't try to charm me.
You promised to stay put.
- I was going
to come right back.
My backside is killing me.
I need to keep moving.
or I get all achy and stiff.
- Well. I got you
this foam donut to sit on
while we wait for your X-rays.
- Hmm.
Dr. Hazel Eyes. it says here
that it's only supposed to take
an hour or two for an X-ray.
- Well. the patient passport
holiday edition
would better reflect reality.
It could be double that.
- There's no need for reality.
We romantics...
prefer la reve. the dream.
- We do. do we?
- Oui.
♪ La mer
qu'on voit danser ♪
♪ Le long des golfes clairs ♪
♪ A des reflets
d'argent. la mer ♪
- [laughs]
Right.
- ♪ Des reflets
changeants sous la pluie ♪
- Hey. save a dance for me.
- Uh. yeah. okay. I will.
- Dr. McKay?
- Yes.
This is Gretchen Williams.
- Actually. it's Lambdin.
- Ah.
- You called about my
ex-husband. Michael Williams.
- Yeah. Yes. yes.
Thank you for coming in.
You were. um. listed
as his emergency contact.
- Yeah. I don't know why.
We have been divorced
for years.
Is he all right?
- He's--he's going
through a lot right now.
Would you like to see him?
- Uh. okay.
Leo. can you zoom in and please
hold it a little steadier?
- Okay.
Atorvastatin.
Simvastatin.
Ezetimibe.
Those are all
high-cholesterol medications.
Can you go to the right?
Lisinopril.
Losartan. Propranolol.
- Wait. wait. that's it.
Wendy's pile.
Yellowish bottle.
little. round blue pills.
just like I said.
- Propranolol?
- Bingo. little lady.
- Okay. yeah. well. this makes
a lot of sense now.
Um. propranolol is a
high-blood-pressure medication.
Those are 20 milligrams each.
and the starting dose
is 40 mgs.
How many pills did you take?
- No. ma'am. I-I went
just before I came here.
- Dad.
- Um--pill--how many pills
did you take?
- Oh. uh.
I think four. maybe five.
- That is a lot.
Okay.
- Full stomach. mind you.
- Well. um. the good news is.
it has a short half-life.
so. um. we're gonna need
to keep you
for about four hours
to monitor.
But then you'll be able
to rejoin
for all the late-afternoon
festivities.
- All right.
- Whoo!
[monitor beeping rapidly]
- Unit 3 and 4 running in.
BP 84 over 56.
Heart rate 112.
- Free fluid's
much bigger than before.
- She's not turning the corner.
OR is holding a room.
- I'll let the husband know.
- Why did you guys wait
so long to check her?
- Good vitals in the field.
No distress.
She refused to sign in.
- You should have
convinced her.
- 20/20 hindsight.
She was stable.
- Until she wasn't.
- Next time. I'll use
my X-ray vision goggles.
- Let's get her upstairs.
- Got to do an accu-check
on my DKA patient.
Thanks for the backup.
- Anytime.
- Now. try and lift
your arm. Mark.
- I'm trying.
Can't do it.
- But you are getting stronger.
and your speech is improving.
- How did I lose
so much potassium?
- You didn't lose it.
It got shifted into cells.
When it comes back.
you'll return to normal.
- Where's Nancy?
- She had an injury to her
spleen right about here
with some internal bleeding.
- Oh. God.
- She passed out
from blood loss.
We were able to transfuse her.
and she's now on her way
to surgery
to repair that damage.
- This is my fault.
She was trying to--
[sighs]
She booked a trip
for us. for me.
I fought her the whole time.
I've been--
[sighs]
Please don't--
oh. my God.
please don't let her die.
Please.
- I can assure you
that she is in excellent hands.
- Is this how it works?
- How what works?
- You think things
are important...
that everything's so important.
And then you end up here
and see.
- Yeah. that is how it works.
- No. it's a small hole.
Like the size of a dime.
right. Doc?
- Mm-hmm.
Yeah. even smaller.
It's a minor enough procedure
that most patients go home
the next day.
- And then?
- And then they'll know
what it is
and how to treat it.
Isn't that right?
- Yeah. exactly.
- I'm sorry
that they called you.
I never updated the form.
I guess.
- No. no. it's okay.
I'm--
You know. they called. and I
was just kind of surprised.
[both chuckle]
- Well. you didn't have
to come.
- But I did.
- I heard you got married.
Congratulations.
- Thank you.
- I hope he treats you well.
You deserve to be happy.
- [sighs]
I'm really sorry you're going
through this. Michael.
- Yeah.
Me too.
But you know me--
I'm a survivor.
- Why don't I-I leave you guys
to talk for a few minutes?
I have a patient to check on.
- Sure.
- Yeah.
- Mr. Diaz should be improving
after 2 liters.
Blood sugar?
- Down from 521 to 436.
- That's good. right?
- Moving
in the right direction.
Were you able to get ahold
of your mom?
- Yes. She's on her way.
She doesn't have a car.
She takes buses.
so it takes longer.
I'm sorry.
- Don't be.
Current insulin is 0.1 units
per kilo per hour.
Next steps?
- Once the glucose
is down to 250.
reduce the insulin to
0.05 units per kilo per hour.
- Because you can normalize
the blood sugar
before you clear the ketones.
and you don't get hypoglycemia.
- But as treatment continues.
you'll have to give IV dextrose
to keep the blood glucose
in between 150 and 200
while the insulin drip
clears the ketones.
- Obviously.
- I'm sorry. what?
- Got it.
- Duante. what are you doing
in there. son?
- I'm a rabbit.
grabbing all the carrots
before the farmer gets me.
- Keep going.
This is a Katz extractor
with a tiny balloon at the end.
What we're gonna do is. we're
gonna slip it past the bead.
inflate the balloon.
try to pull out the bead.
- Is it painful?
- No. he's--he's numbed up.
- Made it to level three.
- And pretty distracted.
- Dad's gonna hold
your head still. okay?
- Look up.
- Okay.
Now go back. perpendicular.
below the turbinates.
You guys ever hear
of John O'Donohue?
- Mm-mm.
- No.
- I've been reading him
a lot lately.
He's got this book
of. um. blessings.
And there's this one
about fatherhood.
Really stuck with me.
[bead clatters]
Voilà.
One red bead.
- Yeah?
How's it go?
- The ending goes.
"May you be gentle and loving.
"clear and sure.
"May you trust
in the unseen Providence
"that has chosen you
to be a family.
"May you stand sure
on your ground and know
"that every grace you need
will unfold before you
like all the mornings
of your life."
- Hmm. That's good.
- I'd add. support your woman
and pack good snacks.
- That's beautiful.
And it turns out. there's
no handbook for fatherhood.
So I will take
all the wisdom I can.
[bead clatters]
Blue bead out.
- Anything else?
- You tell me.
I have my own report to do.
Anything I left out?
- Labs are back on that kid.
- We'll follow up
with Mr. Davis.
- Yeah. when Mr. Davis
comes off the ceiling.
- Jackson Davis...
tox screen negative
for cocaine.
amphetamines. marijuana.
PCP. benzos. and opioids.
- So no drugs in his system?
- Nope.
- Taser barbs on the back
of the victim's neck?
- Yep.
- Changes things. Tony.
- Hey. Louie.
- [groans]
- How we doing?
- Not so good.
I could really use a drink.
I f-feel a-a little empty.
- Okay. well. empty
is what we want.
And it looks like we are there.
- Hey. well. if I can't get
a drink. my tooth.
You--you got to do something.
- We're gonna get
right to that.
Let's hang some IV antibiotics.
3 grams of Unasyn.
- Excellent.
- He's gonna be right back.
We're gonna numb it up
and drain it.
Ten minutes. tops. okay?
- Oh.
- Hey. uh. you said
you met Mr. Zambelli.
the fireworks guy.
on the field.
What field was that?
- Uh. n-no more talking.
You got to fix my tooth.
- Yeah. deal.
- [grunts]
- You're Muslim?
- I am.
- Thank you.
- Oh. for what?
- After the shooting.
it was the Muslims
that came together for us
in support and...
walked with us.
You raised money.
You...
paid for all the funerals.
Anyway...
thank you.
[door opens]
- Hello.
How's it going in here?
Did I miss all the gross stuff?
- Timed it perfectly.
- Excellent.
My job is all about delegation
and time management.
- Oh. not for much longer.
- That is very true.
- W-why for not longer?
- Because tomorrow I am leaving
to go on sabbatical.
- He's leaving us for
three months on a motorcycle.
- Motorcycle?
You're joking.
Why would you do this?
- Why? Why?
Why? Because--
- You're middle-aged man.
Don't be stupid.
- Don't hold back.
Tell me how you really feel.
- Forgive me for being blunt.
Dr. Robinavitch.
but how old are you. huh--50?
- Ish.
50-ish-year-old man
on a motorcycle--
very sad.
[laughter]
[indistinct chatter]
- I. um...
I-I-I don't know what to say.
Have you ever heard of ITP?
I never did.
I really appreciate you
bringing her here. okay?
- Of course.
What do you think I am?
Oh. that's right.
You think I'm some kind
of child abuser.
- No. I never said that--
- The fuck you didn't.
In front of all those people.
you made it sound like
she might have
been getting hurt
while I was watching her.
like it was my fault.
- You basically said
the same thing about me.
- No. I said that
you guys roughhouse--
that's all--because you do.
- You know I would never hurt
my daughter.
- Actually. I don't.
I've known you six months.
You could be anybody.
- Okay. well. I am sorry
for what I said. okay?
I was upset.
and I-I was worried.
And I just--
I said something stupid.
- You think?
- Will you just fucking
let me finish?
- You are finished!
We're finished.
- Well. happy fucking
Fourth of July.
- Yeah. happy Independence Day.
[indistinct chatter]
- Excuse me?
[grunts]
- Yes?
What can I do for you?
- Uh. my wife and I
were in an accident.
Um. she's in surgery right now.
Would you mind holding
my phone up for me
so I could record
a message for her?
- Of course I will.
Happy to.
Oh. good. I have the same one.
I know how this works.
Okay.
Ready?
Go.
- [clears throat]
[sighs]
Hi. my love.
[clears throat]
So. uh...
I was listening
to this couple argue. uh...
and they were yelling.
Both so angry.
And I just wanted you
to know. um...
that I was wrong.
I was so wrong. and--
and I'm sorry about all of it.
Uh...
- Hey.
How you doing?
- [sighs]
I haven't seen him
in. like. four years.
- Oh.
I can't imagine.
That must have been--
- So crazy.
You know. things were not good
at the end.
He was
a really different person.
Huge temper. not like
when we first got married.
- I'm so sorry.
- Could that mass
have been there for a while
and only recently got worse?
- Yes.
- Could it be responsible
for how much he changed?
You know. his--
his moods and tempers?
He was--he was getting
into fights with strangers.
- It's possible.
[sighs]
- Oh.
Thank you.
Um. unless he's asked you
to change it.
would you please leave me as...
the emergency contact?
- Yeah. absolutely.
[door opens]
[sighs]
- Okay. I'm sending
Mrs. Kovalenko home
with burn dressing
but not before
she turned my sabbatical
into a midlife crisis.
- No comment.
- Wound check. two days.
- Got it.
- What about Kylie.
this little girl?
She gone up yet?
- Hopefully soon.
- Hey. we're starting to clear
some space around here.
- Yep.
[telephone ringing]
PTMC Charge Nurse.
Go ahead. Medic Command.
Is this a drill?
Is this a joke?
It's the Fourth
of fucking July.
Got it. Thanks.
- What's up?
- Westbridge has a Code Black
and is closing
to internal disaster.
Central's diverting all
their ambulance traffic to us.
- What's the issue?
- Comspec didn't say.
- Shit. it could be anything
from a flooding toilet
to a power outage.
How long?
- Didn't know.
- A couple of doctors
probably got the holiday flu.
and they're understaffed.
- [chuckles]
How come? How long?
How many?
Mm. mm. mm.
Sounds like
a betting grid to me.
We are back.
- Oh. I should have left
last night.